Other than metrics, how do you know your application isn't performing?
When your cloud monitoring solution detects and notifies you of performance issues,
how do you begin to pursue a solution?
Well, first, let's define a performance issue.
Is it down, is it unreachable?
Has everything stopped, or is it just really slow?
Is it really slow or really slow?
Are users calling, or even worse,
blowing up your Twitter?
Well, not all performance alarms are indicators of a potential outage.
The ones that are, generally have a solution that AWS can address with a service,
preventing your application from losing up time and
causing headaches for your users and support teams.
Your approach to a cloud performance issue might start with some questions.
How did this workload get into our environment?
Did you lift and shift or did you
design the application to be cloud native from the start?
Or did you accidentally over-optimized your compute and not leave
any room for unexpected performance peaks or periods of high activity.
The third question is, when we don't see too often outside of users on
the free tier or without unusually restrictive scaling policies.
But as for the first two,
well, those we see all the time.
An applications that have been lifted and shifted,
their performance issue could be related to virtually any aspect of
the workload directly affected by a cloud service it isn't optimized for.
Well, performance and redundancy are engineered into
cloud native applications with the help of AWS services.
For example, the performance of your lift and shift app could be slow during
peak traffic periods because it runs on
four load-balance servers that aren't configured to auto-scale,
or your database might be down during maintenance because there
isn't a read replica to pick up the slack while it's offline.
Both of those issues can be remediated using cloud services,
even though the app isn't cloud native.
The non-native app can be configured to auto-scale based on API requests,
and the database can be configured with a read replica.
So just because you can't take advantage of AWS performance optimization natively,
you can, of course,
tweak your service options here and there by monitoring their environment as well as
the application to see where
performance bottlenecks can be remediated with an AWS service.
These AWS services can do when problems are detected.
They can spin up instances or scale out.
They can terminate instances,
increase memory allocation, optimize network routes,
and failover to a backup.
So even though your application or workload may not be cloud native,
you still have an incredible variety of options for not only improving your performance,
but also avoiding outages and incidents with the right configuration.
Not all performance issues you encounter will be caused by services you can control.
For example, Internet outages and mobile network outages will affect performance,
and there isn't much you can do about that.
Although it's infrequent, AWS does sometimes experience issues and outages.
To see if an AWS outage is affecting your application's performance,
browse to the AWS service health dashboard and scroll to see if
the service having performance issues
is reported as having an issue by the cloud provider.
The AWS service health dashboard can be found at status.aws.amazon.com.
You browse to this location to see if any of the services that are
experiencing performance issues are being reported as having issues by AWS.
So what you want to do is locate your general region,
North America, and for the most part,
and scroll down, find the service that you think might be having an issue,
locate your region and see what AWS is reporting.
Is the service operating normally or it might be experiencing an issue.
You can also select your personal health dashboard and see if AWS is
reporting that any of the services that knows you have are experiencing any issues.